# Why is annotation important?
Two main contributions of annotations are to clarify the meaning of texts  and enable programmatically processing.

## Clarify scientific prose

- *__Disambiguation of concepts and abbreviations__*: Words can have different meanings in different contexts. With annotations, selected words in a scientific article or abstract are linked to a concept in a knowledge base (e.g. Wikidata) and can be clearly disambiguated. Ultimately, this helps readers better understand the content of scientific articles.
- *__Science communication__*: through an enriched layer, annotations help convey complex information to the general public. It is possible to implement a “hover” function (similar to that in Wikipedia), where the user could hover above a word and you see the definition of a concept.
Programmatically process articles 
Semantic enrichment: annotations enrich a scientific article with an additional layer of machine-readable information, providing more in-depth information about a concept or linking it to other sources of information.

The semantic enrichment layer unleashes the biomedical knowledge constrained in biomedical articles to the world of the semantic web. The connections of concepts, then, can impact a number of different aspects of research: 

## Programmatically process articles 
- *__Semantic enrichment__*: annotations enrich a scientific article with an additional layer of machine-readable information, providing more in-depth information about a concept or linking it to other sources of information.

The semantic enrichment layer unleashes the biomedical knowledge constrained in biomedical articles to the world of the semantic web. The connections of concepts, then, can impact a number of different aspects of research: 


- *__Integration of different sources of information__*: annotations can help us find information related to any given concept, regardless of its source. From the perspective of the researcher, this can improve  the visibility of their work, making it reachable for the ones interested in the area.  
- *__Improvement of document classification: annotation can help automated document classification, making it easier to search these documents.
- *__Search for complex questions__*: Text annotated with Wikidata IDs (semantically enriched) are readable by computers. This enables better discovery mechanisms (and not just left as words). Moreover, Wikidata is a knowledge graph, and concepts are linked to each other. That makes if possible to leverage the collective knowledge embedded in the graph to make powerful queries, such as: “Which articles produced by alumni of my university mention drugs that block NMDA receptors?” , “Which cell lines are used for research that deals with respiratory viruses”?. 
- *__Improve openness of research__*: annotations in a paper that link to an open knowledge base increase the openness of an article in accordance to the FAIR principles of Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reusability. Our work focus on annotations compatible with the EuropePMC API (which uses the W3C standard and encodes annotations in a RDF-compatible format), therefore making annotations quickly available via the API itself and wrappers, such as the R package europe PMC.

